Good morning everyone.
Good morning, sir. Good morning, sir. Good morning, sir.
Morning, sir. Okay. Good morning, sir.
I'm sorry to actually, you know, uh,
taking your long weekend vacations,
but I'll be taking like maybe one and two hours.
Okay.
Share one.
Share.
Okay, so
When I was going through actually the, you know,
the topics and all and previous classes, we also discussed
that, uh, can we like fast pace few of the like, uh, classes
and combine the classes merge together
so we can advance in the domain of the deep learning.
So we can, like suppose we can, uh, dive into like a
small details of the, like a deep neutral network aspects,
or maybe we dive into like a, you know, uh, the,
like a committed of the resonate kind of things
or maybe CNN, all those kind of things.
So I, I, initially we had the discussion
and all, so today's class I saw that we are supposed
to dive into the one aspect
that was the Kenya neighbor, right?
In previous class, SVM was already done, and
because of the DT and all those
things we have already covered.
So the is basically very, uh, like when
I was making the materials
and everything, I found that within, uh, 10,
15 minutes it'll be over.
So what to do with the other times and all.
So we'll be having a lot of time.
So I thought of like, you know,
combining the next class with this class.
So, uh, next class we are supposed to do the NA base.
So today I'll be actually combining the na base along
with the, uh, can nearest naval algorithm.
So two algorithms will be learning today.
Uh, the canine is very simple. It's very easy to understand.
Uh, like, uh, you know, I think, uh, like class seven,
eight students will be also able to like, uh, you know,
understand the logic on,
on the thing name is a little bit a trickier thing.
So we'll understand, uh, uh, these things
and we'll be, uh, applying those quotes and everything.
And we'll be understanding the mathematical aspects
or all in the next class, we are having the k, uh,
mean clustering, uh, PCA, these kind of,
these are unsupervised, uh, methods we are having.
So I'm, uh, thinking to like combine, uh, the scan
means clustering along with the PC and Disney.
So, uh, by next lab, this lab eight, uh,
will be having these things covered.
Then we can dive into the neural network,
deep neural network, the aspect of the la gradient descend,
the, you know, uh, the optimizers.
Those things I, I do think, like, uh,
are very much important in current days if you want
to have the knowledge and all.
So later classes will be diving
and focusing more time into the neural network.
That is the idea. Uh, if you're having any session
into this thing, please, uh, also, uh, like, uh,
gimme your ideas as well so we can like, uh, both like, uh,
you know, communicate both ways
and have a mutual understanding mutualization we can take
to forward this class from now and on.
Is This agreeable? The idea which I'm having like
combining like multiple smaller things
into one class and all?
Yes, sir. Yes, that is, yes.
So like, instead of like, you know,
you're focusing on the basic a NA
and architecture in the last lab session.
So we'll be diving a little bit more deeper into the deep
ral networks and like,
not do I know deep learning will be a subject for you.
So I'll be focusing on the, like, hands-on kind of thing
where like multiple things,
the optimizers activation functions.
So those things are not usually taught.
So I'll be actually, uh, going
and giving you instructions on those, like what to use
and which scenarios and all those things.
I, I do think that will be like beneficial for you.
Okay, so I'll be starting
with the key nearest neighbor.
Oh, this, okay.
Yeah. Okay.
Key nearest neighbor. So, Uh,
This is, uh, like, uh, one of the algorithms where
we do few of the stuff very well.
Like, let me tell you like few of the, you know,
premise devices of this algorithm.
Then you will have
More In depth idea.
So the basic first idea is there is
no training time for this algorithm.
We are having no training time.
So if
You are something like, uh, doing some modeling and all,
and there, uh, the completions we are having like hardware
issues, something like that.
And I want to create some model, uh, with, from some dataset
and all, uh, you need to train the model.
And also that takes huge amount of time.
So in case of the scale near this neighbor,
we are having no training.
Okay? So basically the model is
what model works in such a way they,
Uh, Store the dataset.
Okay? Whatever the dataset you are giving, uh,
for like a machine learning model,
algorithm development purpose, it stores the like dataset.
And later when you give the, you know, uh,
for like use the models for prediction and analysis
and the inputs you provide that time, it calculates
and gives you results and all.
So what kinda like prediction as a classifier?
So this is a, like we are both having both the classifier
and regress classifier.
We are having both of the things
classify regressor, both are present.
Uh, this works better for the, you know, mostly classifier,
but also works wonderfully for the regressor.
Now this algorithm also is very useful when you are having
data set small
and your, you know, uh, the dimensions.
The number of features are also so small.
So these are the aspects when these are matching, okay?
You don't need to train the data.
You are having small amount of dataset,
you are having small, like, uh,
number of features are small.
Then you actually go
and try to implement this k nearest neighbor algorithm.
Okay? Now let's see what are the things here?
So it is a supervised machine learning algorithm.
So basically you are mapping the input or to output
or independent variable to, uh, dependent variable, fine.
Now, this is also called as a lazy learner.
Lazy learner, as in it doesn't actually do
the training purpose at all.
Unlike, you know, different algorithms.
It trains then like saves us, uh, snap encrypt,
whichever the curves
and fitting everything they have understood from the data
and patterns and all.
Usually it doesn't train, it saves the, you know,
data set down all within the model
and do the prediction based on the calculations.
Okay, so how does it do that?
First we need to have a number
that is the K value we need to choose.
Okay? So K value can be very small, very high, okay?
Depending upon your data set, you'll choose
or you can like put on a, you know, uh, uh,
fall loop based on that you can also extract
or like a in which K number you are getting a
good value or something like that.
Let's just draw something that I'll be able
to explain better, I guess.
Okay?
So
suppose we are having, you know, in a dataset,
if you're plotting, suppose it two dimension, uh,
the other two sets of data, one is red, okay?
And another is, uh, let, let,
lemme draw you some, right?
Okay. Now suppose there are two classes you are having,
uh, hypothetically.
So one is red, okay? Another is green.
Now, when you train the model
and all, usually it is not training it save the data.
So as it is now you are giving another set of data
and trying to predict whether that data is, you know,
uh, that is red or blue, it's a red
or green, that is idea.
So this is a new data set, that pink color,
one new data set you are giving
and tries to predict which class it belongs to,
whether it belongs to green, whether it belongs
to red, something like that.
So the idea is, you know,
it calculates the distance from this data point
to nearest neighbors, okay?
You are assigning a value of neighbor suppose k, value
of assigning that is suppose, um, assigning three.
Okay? So it'll basically measure the distance from
here, whatever the neighbor, sir.
Okay? Suppose this is another neighbor. Okay?
So these are three closest value it got, okay?
So based on that you'll see, okay, I have three, you know,
neighbors for this, you know, data set for this data.
So out of these three, how many are having more classes?
So based on that, we are having two classes.
So I can identify this pink as, uh, you know, belongs
to the red classification.
I'll give you another example.
Suppose I'm having another dataset.
That dataset, you're trying to build it,
that dataset is here
and based on the cave hall three, that is the cave hall,
Cave hall three, it'll also, uh, like measure what are the,
you know, nearest neighbor here it is having,
so it'll calculate these three, okay?
It'll create a circle kind of thing.
And based on that, these three neighbors came. Okay?
These three are belong from the, like, majority of the
cloud, like neighbors are belong from read.
So basically I'll identify this class as a red class,
this new dataset, that is the idea.
First you select the key, what will,
how many neighbors you are actually costing
with the minimum distance.
Okay? You calculate the distance with the,
like you based on the Euclid
or Manhattan that we discuss, okay?
And you find out the neighbors, what,
what are the nearest neighbors based on the key value,
the number of neighbors you find,
and you find out the average
or even the majority, which classes it is more closer
to that is the algorithm.
That is the simplest way you draw, like,
you like having multiple classes,
which are already segregated, okay?
And your like, you know, giving more dataset data points
and trying to predict which is like a,
which class it belongs to, which is more closer to whether
that's a like closer rate, closer
to green, something like that.
That is the idea, okay?
Okay. So this is how the thing is known Now, uh,
basically whenever we are actually trying
to visualize in a spect of like two dimension,
three dimension, we can visualize the dataset what like, uh,
the dimension is along more than three
and four visually, we as a human we cannot imagine,
but in case of, uh, that is the like mathematical side
that is like, uh, easily doable.
So that distance between like multiple points,
having multiple data sets that can be calculated,
that is not an issue.
That is the idea. Okay?
So these are the three, you know, uh, types
of distances we actually, uh, calculate for them on, uh,
finding out the neighbors.
So basically two, um, uh, uh, let's discuss that one.
So we are having nuclear distance, okay?
Based on the, you know, uh, the, uh, straight line
distances of two points that we actually calculate.
So XI minus YI squared, that is the, at that one.
So basically whenever you are having, uh,
huge amount of dataset
and all, not huge amount of data, huge amount,
like a larger number of, uh, your, uh,
features in those cases you use, uh, Euclid.
Uh, and in case of like a, you know, number
of features a little bit on the lesser side, we go
for the Manhattan, that is the idea
and, uh, sorry, uh, good for high dimension.
If you're having high dimension, then Manhattan distance,
and if you're having lower, uh, amount of, you know,
dimension, they are going for Euclidean.
Now, the minow key thing is something where, uh,
you are having a parameter p
if you're setting the p value is one, it is taking the,
you know, distance metrics for calculating neighbors,
and if you're as assigning, P value is two,
it is taking the Manhattan distance basically.
Uh, instead of choosing
or Manhattan, if you're choosing, uh, minow ski
or P value, you're changing one or two.
So you're basically switching between the CLE and Manhattan
and trying to check which is giving you more,
you know, better output.
And now that is the idea of having the minow ski,
uh, distant metrics.
Okay? Now
For, you know, classification regression, we are having,
um, similar, uh, approaches.
So we are taking the class assigned by majority votes,
so whichever neighbors are having majority of the classes
that will be having that one.
So we are actually counting the values of like a neighbors
that belongs to which class that is there.
And for regression, uh, we take
or try to take the mean average value
of the nearest neighbors
and try to actually map out what is the probable value of
that particular point at that particular point.
So that is the idea of the classification.
Both can be done because, uh, like things are happening, uh,
in a, in dimensional space, the space, you know,
the value on that space can be calculated for the regression
and for the classification where just counting what are the,
like, you know, nearest neighbors are having, uh,
like belong to which class.
Okay? Uh, so, uh,
optimal value in this one we are having,
if you're having low optimal value that, uh,
may cause the over fitting, okay?
If you're having under fitting, okay, uh,
like a cable is very higher, then
that will be under fitting issue.
That is the whole thing.
So how do we actually take in everything?
Let's we be diving into that one. Uh, okay then.
And, uh, more of the things that is in this algorithm,
if you're having, uh,
something like a data is having like a noise
or the outliers then will try
to avoid using this kind of data set.
That is another, uh, aspect that you need to follow.
And, uh, if the data set are having like categorical values,
mostly you try to also avoid this algorithm.
So if you're having numeric data set, uh, smaller amount
of data, then this algorithm works, uh, very well.
Okay? Let's just go to like, uh, the coding aspect, okay?
So, uh, start from that one.
So we are basically using that it dataset just like, uh,
or in your previous classes,
and we'll try to actually do the prediction within
the key nearest neighbor.
The Y value
or the dependent variable will be able survive.
And, uh, x value multiple, uh, features will be taking
for the independent variables.
This is read the data.
D, physical two, PD read, C, s, B, that's the one, okay?
Now the data head,
after checking the data head, we already know, okay?
Few of the data points, which we need first, uh, uh, we need
to actually segregate the data points and all.
Then we'll be going for the other things.
So, uh, first we are doing in the X and y,
Uh, okay,
This is different.
Uh,
Yeah, In the Y we are choosing the survive dataset fine
and the X we are choosing except the survive, all
of the other data points.
Now, once it is done, uh, we are going, uh, for this,
okay, draw.
So once the drop drain is done,
then we are doing the segregation.
Okay, let's just go to this one, huh?
Just apply the level M quarter in this parameter, okay?
X will drop name tickets given embarkment. Okay?
So finally we're, uh, like done
with the dataset, uh, pre-processing.
Okay? In this one we have, uh, taken the dataset for,
okay, use another one,
okay, head.
Okay. So we are having as a, like a, in, uh,
independent variable, we are taking passenger ID P class,
uh, six, which is already labeled ENC coded age,
S-I-V-S-P parts sphere.
So multiple, uh, things we have taken into consideration.
Now we'll do one thing that is, uh, like fear and age
and the passenger no id, passenger id.
We can also, I think draw, uh, that is the thing we can do.
So X equal two,
uh, passenger idea, so we can drop this one as well.
So these are the remaining ideas we are having.
Now, we'll apply the scaling function of this two, so
that we'll go and like, uh, fit and everything.
Suppose X scaled
transform X, Okay, this one.
So once it is done, we will go extra y train
x, y scaled,
X scaled Xray
extract, Y train, white test,
No, uh, for actually doing your like, uh,
you know, key nearest neighbor.
So we are basically choosing, uh, from neighbors.
We are importing the key near neighbor, uh, classifier.
So once it is done, we are also here in the k, uh,
and M class, we are creating an object from that.
We will be calling the, you know, function
to model training and all.
So we're calling that function,
and within that in neighbors, you can choose how many,
you know, uh, neighbors you want for your algorithm.
So we can change this four to 5, 6, 3, 2,
depending upon your, you know, hit and trial methods.
So how much I produce you are getting this is do this one
Screen.
Yeah.
So now the model is already trained and we'll go
and check the
Test, test.
What is accuracy you're getting?
So we are roughly getting the accuracy of 64%.
So it is not that good,
but, uh, like, you know,
multiple factorization we are having into this one,
I think like, uh, you know, uh, this is not working.
So what can we do? We can like change the, you know, uh,
this, uh, number of neighbors.
I gonna hit trial method
and see like how, uh, this is actually turning out for us.
Now, if we return the model repetitive, uh, manner,
like from ranging one to 40, so we are changing the,
you know, this I value, uh, based upon this,
you know, neighbors we are choosing.
So we are continuously creating the classifier, okay?
Neighbors, neighbor, classifier,
and continuously doing the iteration
and checking the, uh, you know, what is the score.
So basically we're going print for i for this, I
what will be the score.
So the score is uh, k, uh, K in class.
Do score for this one, you can use to check the score
of any, uh, classifiers.
So white test, uh, this will be stress, comma,
Whitest, ah, Just fine.
So if I like, do run this one.
So it'll be going in iteration of loop from one to 40
and it'll show us the, like
what others are probable results we are getting.
So based on that, you were saying from one to 3, 4, 5, 6,
continuously, it is going
and we're definitely getting the same result.
That is a 0.65 percentage of accuracy.
That is the like, uh, you know, uh, so if you increase it,
decrease it, it is not having like a huge amount
of impact in this one.
So that is the idea of the key algorithm.
If you're like in this one, we are having the dataset
that is the size.
If you check
Info, Roughly we're having thousand dataset, I guess,
uh, 8 89, okay.
Thousand samples. So if your dataset is something like
5,000, 200, something like in the lesser amount
of number, uh, this is useful.
Now, one thing is like a problematic in this, uh, um,
that is, uh, like if your data set is, uh, you know, uh,
large in that case, Whenever you are trying
to actually predict any value, it'll basically go
and, uh, like, uh, try to calculate the distance value
with multi, like all of the remaining data points and all.
So the calculus in time is huge in those cases, so try
to avoid it for the larger dataset.
For the, uh, secondary point, I would say,
when you are having the dimension is huge
and all in those cases also you try to avoid.
Now we'll, uh, try
to actually use the Manhattan distance
along with this one on.
Also, uh, this, uh, you know, uh, Euclid, let's see
how much like a difference we are getting.
So, uh, in this one, suppose we are saying, uh,
the distance vector, I guess, uh,
The one,
let's just check.
Okay,
I think metric equal to something like that.
Me? Yeah,
just see
and enable, was metric minow equal to one or two?
Five?
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay.
So suppose this is a thing weird doing. Okay?
Uh, okay, nurse classifier. Okay.
In,
okay, S is good.
Uh, that was also not initialized, I guess.
Okay, now let's just do it.
So we're roughly having the same one for the value two.
That is the let's go to Manhattan.
Uh, same
there.
Why no changes? Is there?
See in this one,
Okay,
2.679, if we are drinking two,
2.64 for one, if we're going for the Euclid distance,
we are having higher accuracy,
but here does not swing.
I think class classify again, and I, ok, ok, okay. Okay.
K and I
Okay.
For, you know, different depression, if you see, uh, like
for one obviously there is too low, too low
or like what fitting issues can be there.
Uh, sorry. Uh, for like, for optimal solution,
we do think in the middle we have
to find whatever the value we are having.
So like 73%, we are able
to get the highest accuracy in this case.
And that is the idea. If you're taking the occlude in
distance, let's go for the like minute in distance.
In this case, if you're seeing, uh, in the middle, uh,
we are having roughly 70% value, that is the like,
highest accuracy we're getting
for the Manhattan, uh, distance.
So this is how we can, uh, combine
and test, uh, different scenarios
for the key algorithms and all.
So I'll also share the like, uh, this, uh, you know, uh,
IPNB file, that is a Google call file.
You can like, uh, uh, check
and like, uh, you know, modify this code
and according to your needs for like learning purposes,
not fine.
So, uh, the next algorithm which we'll be discussing
that is the, uh, uh, n base, okay?
Name base is a theory where, uh,
actually it is coming from a idea that is the, uh,
probability simple as
that we are basically jumping into the probability
factor, uh, notes.
Yeah. So,
So we can rightly say like if, uh,
the simple probability there like, uh, you know,
if any event is occurring, what would be the, you know,
chances that one, uh, event occurred, uh,
among the rest of the things.
So let's just, so, uh, take an example.
Suppose we are having one, uh, you know, uh, that is the
suppose, okay?
So, uh, for an example, suppose we are taking, uh, uh, uh
hmm, mm-hmm.
So you suppose you are taking a, like, uh,
drawing a card, okay?
You are drawing a card form,
okay?
And you are trying to find out whether the card is
a queen, okay?
That is the idea. So what is happening
now you directly know.
So number of queens of four, okay?
Now what is the, like total number of cards we are having?
52 so that you can calculate the probability like this one.
Now what happens? Like suppose, uh, you're saying
that you have already drawn the card.
Okay, now what is the probability that card being a diamond
or like suppose that, uh, like, uh, uh,
let's just give another example.
I think that will be better, okay?
Okay. Suppose I have one bag,
which is containing two red balls
And Three black blue balls,
Okay?
And we are having another bag.
So Two bags are there. In this one we are having
Three Red balls
And two blue balls.
Now, what is the probability that
randomly you are choosing like, uh, you know, blindly
or you are picking out one volume?
You, you don't even know which bag is it from?
Fine, and what is the probability
that you'll get a red ball?
Okay, so what is the probability,
Uh, picking, uh, red ball? That
Is the idea.
Okay? Now how do we actually, uh,
calculate these kind of problems?
We actually solve these things
with a conditional probability.
That Is the idea we are having.
So how does conditional probability works?
So we are having a formula that we'll discuss,
and now how that is calculated each
and everything we'll discuss.
So, uh, like one probability is like choosing one red ball
from this one first bag.
That is the probability two divided by five.
So you're having the probability
of R in this case is two by five.
So total number samples a five, uh, red balls a three,
and this case for the second bag,
we are having the probability
of picking red wall is three divided five, five.
Now choosing bag one is also half.
In this case For bag one,
the probability is half, and for bag
Two, The probability is also half.
Now Combine all of them together
to find out like total probability of picking up a red ball.
That is the question. Now, how do you solve this one?
Does you solve in this way?
So for this one, uh, uh,
from like you are choosing the ball,
the ba like ball is from, uh, like a red
and it is from like back one.
So that is one by two multiplied by
Two Y five. Okay?
So basically you're having, uh, two by
10, that is the from back one probability,
And for the second one, you are having half in two, three
Y five. So
Basically, uh, that is, uh, Three by 10.
Okay? Now, total probability will be these
two added, okay?
The probability of RR as a whole total,
that will be two by 10
Plus three by 10. Okay?
So basically that will mm-hmm.
Probably that is half. So that is
how we calculate the conditional probability and all.
Let's just like, uh, go a little bit deeper, okay?
How we can use this one, uh,
for machine learning algorithms and all.
So, uh, the basic idea of why to like use this, you know,
name based algorithm and like we are
having multiple other algorithms.
C why why are we learning the first, uh, thing that is,
uh, like if again, you are having, you know, uh,
uh, that is the small amount of data, just like, you know,
key nearest neighbor, you are having small amount of data,
this algorithm is very much effective.
Now, where it is more effective,
it is a like staple algorithm for NLP,
natural language processing,
where you are involving the text words
and all this algorithm works.
Wonderful. That is the idea of the n base.
So you're having multiple algorithm,
but n base works the best, uh, for the like, you know,
the text and the prediction.
Suppose you are writing something in the calcula, uh, like,
you know, web browser
or in a chat application, the predicted word what is coming.
So I am going to suppose the next word,
where you are going the prediction from your history
or something like that, that, you know,
words or something like that.
Those are coming from this mostly this name based algorithm
and all like, compared to like other algorithms,
you can see the complexity is, uh, very less compared
to the, like a neural network or decent.
Also, uh, little bit complex.
The decent gets a very large based on the like, uh,
you know, number of features, uh,
training speed in this one, uh, it is extremely fast,
but compared to KNN, it is obviously, uh, you know, slower.
KNN takes no time for the training.
Neur network is slow, uh, decent is moderate in this one.
And also dataset just like, uh, uh, k near sniper,
it needs a smaller amount of data, okay?
And for the other algorithms,
it needs larger amount of data.
So the, the, those are the like normal practical side
of things, which we are associated with the nbe.
And then NBE is the speed and efficiency is higher.
And secondary thing you need to remember
whenever you are coming for a textbook, uh, kind of things
or istic algorithm you need to use,
you are having outliers in your data, okay?
The data is having very much outliers
and all those things, uh, like nbu works very well.
That is the idea. Now,
like the formula for this conditional probability that is,
uh, like, uh, the thing is suppose, uh,
we want to find out the probability of a, uh, so
that B has already occurred.
That is the idea. Now, I'll give you the scenario.
We have calculated the total probability of r
that is, that is there.
Now, if I ask you the question like, suppose
you have picked the
picked one red ball,
so you have already got the result
that you have already drawn a ball that is in red in color.
Now the question is, what is the chance
that the ball came
from bag one?
That is a question. Now, the e event has already occurred.
That is the ball you have chosen that is reading colored,
but what is the priority
that the ball is coming from the first bag?
That is a question. Now in mathematical term that is written
as such as P of condition B, uh, like probability of B one,
we are trying to find out given net A has already occurred,
uh, sorry, R has already occurred.
So red ball you have already got.
Now you're trying to find out what is the probability
that is the, you know, uh,
that red ball is from B one, okay?
But that one we can formulate a, like, you know, this kind
of situations where we can write the formula, uh, P
of a intersection, B divided by P of B.
So like, let's see, like how it is done and all. Okay?
Now here another example given what is the probability
of rain, given that it is a cloudy, uh, the,
even the like weather, it's cloudy.
So if it is cloudy, the chances
of rain is high, much, much higher.
If it is sunny, the chances of rain will be much fuller.
This is kind of probability we're talking about. Okay?
Now here from the condition probability,
the base serum came into play.
Now how do we solve this one?
Uh, like PA given B or so,
or we are saying PR
and the ball red ball already you have, you know, uh,
already taken out.
Now you try, are trying to find out the priority.
A that is the ball is from bag one, that is probability.
Now, how do we calculate find out like this?
P of the uh, bag is, you know, there given
that a already occurred.
That is the reverse, the probability of rate, uh,
from the bag B one
and probability of A, that is the, uh, probability
of in this case we are having the bag that is the half.
And why divided divide probability of B, so probably B
or isn't probability of it.
Let's just like, you know, solve this one.
I think that will be better for you to understand.
Now this, we can write a such electric P of R
given B one into probability of,
and that is B one.
Uh, divide
Probability of R.
Okay? So this is the formula.
Now, like put every data into this one from our
findings, okay?
So P of R
or B one, so red from the B one.
So we are trying to find out the red from B one.
How many reds are like balls at there?
Like, uh, three out of five ball, two red are there.
So we know the r you know, probability R from the bag one
that is two wifi five, so we can replace this is Y
two upon five, okay, multiplied by probability of B one,
what is the probability of choosing a bag
that is the half we have already calculated.
You can multiply this one half,
Okay?
And the probability of, oh, that is
r we have already calculated raw probability
of red ball picking up from any basket
that we will insert as a half year.
So whatever the value it is there.
So that basically is saying
that you have already drawn out the ball,
that ball color is red.
What is the quality of that?
You know, ball came out from the basket one.
So this is how we solve with the based here, fine.
So this is also, we are applying
for this machine learning algorithm and all, Okay?
And like basically, uh, we are saying this, um, name
because like each
of the individual like features whatever it is there,
and we are, uh, pitching it, uh, against the, you know,
dependent variable and we are saying each of the
variables are independent.
That is the like assumption we are taking
in for calculations.
Now the idea is like, it may be dependent
and may not be dependent,
but uh, in case of, you know, uh, name base,
it works wonderfully suppose, uh, the like, uh,
features are there like, uh, you know, uh,
spam categorization of your emails
and all those things, uh,
for those also neighbors works wonder.
Uh, suppose you are having a like email
or SMS game that is a free money.
You click on the link. So in the our like past expense,
we know those are mostly scam fine, but the fee word alone
or money word alone is not a like,
you know, scam kind of thing.
Like that cannot be swm.
So how these are like a combined actually coming
and giving you the results.
That is the like wonder of the snap based algorithm. I,
Okay,
So, uh, the same, you know, pattern that is
that we do the training, we do the, uh, computation of this,
uh, PE classes and all,
and based upon that we can do the prediction based on the
prediction, uh, the classification come into play.
Now how, how these are coming into play.
So such as, uh, if two, you know, uh,
you are giving an input
and you're trying to find out like
what are the classes it belongs to for each of the classes,
uh, this nip base will actually calculates it's, uh,
you know, probabilistic value.
So, uh, suppose you are giving a mail
and asking the n based algorithm to calculate, uh,
what is it that this, uh, mail is a spam or not.
So based on the spam
and based on the north spam,
it'll calculate the holistic value based upon the, you know,
pass data sets and all,
and it'll calculate some kind of istic value.
Suppose for the spam, the score count 0.06,
and for ham, that is a not spam that came out 0.0003
in this case, whichever is higher.
The n base algorithm says this is the category
or classification I'm putting the mail into.
That is the idea. Whichever is higher that class, this,
you know, dataset or data point is belonging.
That is the idea for this name base.
Now, the baseline standard we already discussed for the NLP,
uh, whenever the words of like a prediction
for the next ward or doing a spam ation
or like, uh, putting, you know, different categories
of mail, uh, for those things in lp, uh, like, uh,
this nip base works wonder.
That is the idea. Uh, now different type of nip base.
We are also having, just like in your previous algorithm,
uh, we are having, uh, uh, multinomial,
uh, les, these kind of things.
Now, in case of, you know, uh, this, uh, psychic learn,
we are having these options.
So Sian, uh, name base, multinomial, uh, name base lyase,
uh, complement name base
and category name base based upon your dataset, you need
to identify, okay, these kind
of dataset we are dealing with.
So I'll be applying these kind of algorithms.
So for, you know, Titan dataset, uh, this Sian
nase is like better
because we are having continuous variable
as the age is there, here is there,
so continuous values are involved in those can sian
nase works better.
So suppose you are having like, you know, uh,
multiple output that that was there.
Uh, like instead in this one we are having only two
categorical output.
Okay? Zero to one survives not survived,
but in case we are having more classifications
and all, then we would've chosen this multinomial NAEP base.
Now, another thing, uh, in the, like a text classifier,
actually, if you're going for, uh, this multinomial
and bundle is works in such a way, uh,
you are having multiple, uh, uh, like, uh, large centers
where the repetition words are coming.
So either you can like, uh, choose a like zero one
as in like a words as a vector,
which are coming or not, uh, coming.
And the multinomial you would be counting each of the words
how many times it is occurring.
So that is another thing.
Now we are having more two things that is the complement of,
uh, nb, uh, discrete counts just like Nmb.
Okay? Uh, this one and this one are combinary and also
whenever imbalance data set is there
or, uh, for this one also EU can use.
Now another thing, we are having categorical nase.
In this one we are having some, all
of the independent features,
those are in categorical manner.
Then we can also choose the categorical name base.
So that is the idea of the name base.
So you are having a different, different data set.
You can apply different,
different n based algorithm based upon your needs
and based upon the data sets.
So for the same, you know, uh, application that is, uh,
like Titanic data set, I have also done this one.
Uh, so
N based algorithm, yeah.
Uh, for the N base, we are going
for the Sian N base in this one
because we are dealing with a data set
where we are having the continuous value as a age and fit.
Okay? That is there. So we are choosing that one.
Let's Just go on it,
Okay?
Now we'll do the Training
train train.
Now if you do, and check the accuracy all,
Okay? Hmm.
So we're having roughly accuracy of 67% in this case.
So we are having these kind, you know, algorithms
where you can use for different,
different scenarios and all.
I hope, uh, like, uh, you know, uh, like
because we are using for this one as we're not getting,
but for the text and all, uh, play next word, uh,
classifying the, you know, males
and all, uh, this algorithms are like, uh, brilliant.
That in that case, okay?
Uh, questions and all. If you're having,
Where do I?
Yeah,
Okay. If you are not
having any questions,
can we, uh, like close the season?
Excuse me, sir, I have a, uh, note sir.
Yeah, please, Sir.
Uh, in case of need base, we, if all
of them are independent, then what is the role
for conditional probabilities, if
that part is a little bit abstract?
Yeah. So condi in conditional probability, yeah,
in conditional probability what is happening, uh,
suppose you are having, you know, uh,
Uh, Okay,
you are having multiple,
Um, This features, right?
Hmm. And for, to check the conditional probability,
we are having one independent variable, uh, sorry,
one independent variable and multiple independent variable.
Hmm. So we are actually continuously the formula
for, uh, this one.
Uh, suppose,
Uh, where is it? Okay, in
This one we can write, Uh,
this n uh, machine learning
or multiple pages just,
Uh, so what is happening, uh, each
of the variable is pitched against the
dependent variable individually.
Now, we are actually assuming each
of these variables is six.
This age S-I-P-R-P per sphere.
These are all, you know, independent from each other.
They are not also, you know, come, uh, like, uh,
that is like affecting each other's values and all.
So that is the assumptions we are taking.
That might be true, that might not be true,
but we are taking the assumption that is the,
like the output variable must be, you know,
depending upon these individual features, uh, like,
you know, individually, that is the idea we are taking,
Okay? That is
the idea or assumption we are using.
Suppose what assumption, fail
Assumption that that is what I'm saying.
Suppose in this one, the survive id, we want to check
and we are actually doing a, you know,
a probabilistic calculation from each
of these features against the survived
that survived may be actually, you know, uh,
dependent upon this six probabilistically affecting this one
or may not be, but we don't know
before applying the algorithms
or individually we doing the calculation, we don't know,
but we are assuming that, okay, this six, this age, the,
you know, S-I-B-S-P parts, everything is
actually affecting the survivor id.
Okay? Okay. So that is the assumption we are taking in.
So that, that is the n part,
okay?
So in this one also, you can see this is the one y we are
having that is the survive X one, X two,
X three, multiple X are coming,
Okay?
And to calculate the, you know, uh, Value
that is the same probability of Y,
then we are having probability of x given
YXX one given YX two given YX three given y, uh,
that is a like, you know, continuous, there multiplication,
then we are having probability X one probability into X two
probability probably into X three.
Uh, that is the thing that we are multiplying.
So you're having multiple values like that.
This, this thing, this we are doing
probably X one given y this part is kind of coming as your,
uh, that is the nip part.
We are assuming these, these will be true for each
of the individual, you know, attribute
that is affected by the why.
Mm, sir?
Um, here we are not
actually training anything, right?
No, we are doing training. We are doing the calculations.
Yeah. So, um, so it's, it's not actually a model,
but just a distribution of data, so mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. So how you, if your test data can be,
may not, uh, be from that distribution, right?
Let's say it's a, it's a, it is a, what I'm trying
to say is it is a probability, uh,
calculation based on the given input.
Mm-hmm. So out of these many number of passengers, if, uh,
these attributes match, this is your survival, uh,
chances Yes.
Kind of, right? Mm-hmm.
So let's say your, your, uh, uh,
your test data doesn't have, uh,
your training data doesn't have whatever,
we usually don't have that right in the test data.
So test data will be separate.
We don't use that for training.
So then how will this, it'll just, uh, um,
create based on those, it'll just create,
give based on the probabilities of the test data, right?
Yeah. We see training, any model
What is happening, um, basically, uh,
it, it is cross-checking.
It is cross-checking whatever the inputs you are giving
based upon this output.
It is looking and based upon the, like, you know, uh,
extract white test data you are giving based on that,
it is like, uh, uh, just like other also tries
to predict without looking the existing data, then
it does actually cross check with the whatever the, uh,
actual data that is there here in this algorithms.
What is the difference between these algorithms
and the machine learning?
Uh, like, uh, deep learning algorithms, sir?
Like in deep learning algorithms, we do the back propagation
to actually modify the weights
and biases to improve the accuracy and, all
Right? Yeah.
Uh, in machine learning, we're not having
that option, that is the problem,
But machine learning, we, um, uh, we will have, let's say,
uh, kind of logistic regression model where mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
It says this is yes or no kind of output. Mm-hmm.
Uh, it's, it's essentially a model
and, uh, your test data will, will, uh,
I mean based on the test data we say whether it is right
or wrong or you know, binary classware,
multi-class classware.
Mm-hmm. Um, but here, uh, it is gian model is just
calculating the probabilities, let's say out of, um, yeah,
uh, uh, calculating the probabilities
of a given dataset, given population.
Mm-hmm. Now, uh, your test data doesn't belong to that.
Then how is it applying those probabilities on test data?
Okay. It is directly, I think, uh, like during the,
this formula, what is it saying?
So this, I think this is the assumption they are doing
something like from the training data
and from the pace data,
they are also taking these assumptions
as well Based upon that.
Yeah. It is calculating from like, like both the classes,
both like multiple classes.
Uh, for suppose you are giving one set of data,
it'll check the probability the people had,
like person has survived.
Again, it'll check for the another class
that is the people have didn't survive,
and it will do the calculation for both of them.
Probability calculate both of them,
and it'll check which, uh, is having like higher value.
So it like categorizes, okay, this person has survived,
like it is having higher value, supposed the value is 0.08
and, uh, not survived.
The value was 0.0008, something like that.
So whichever value is higher based on that, it tries
to categorize, uh, that, you know,
data points into one class.
Okay? Okay. Okay.
So idea is, uh, okay thing here.
Now, this is the one side of the equation
for like our understanding.
We are saying the probability of B one given
that ball is already read.
Now this, uh,
like a name based algorithm in your machine learning,
it'll also calculate probability of B two
given that r Okay, so it is basically
checking that ball has been drawn,
but it is not from the red.
Whichever value will be higher, either this,
this value will be higher
or this value will be higher based on that, it will say yes
or no for this like question.
Okay. Okay. So it calculus for all
of the istic even categories, it is having,
whichever value is the highest they assign that category.
Okay? This is a category it belongs to. That is the idea.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm seeing that it's,
it doesn't actually contain any weights,
but it just calculates the probabilities.
Yeah. Yeah. It is a probabilistic method
and like it is not suited for like, you know, this,
this kind of data, but in case of like the, like, you know,
uh, the male and all, which,
which we have generally we suppose
go into the males and all. Okay.
Okay. So multiple categories are their primary
promotion, social updates, how these are done, how,
you know, spam mails are coming,
not spam mails are coming, these kind of things.
How it is like done.
These are done through this, uh, you know,
name based algorithm mostly.
So for like data sets, which are having like multiple words
and all, but those, it works better.
It tries to find out the
progressive value based on the previous data
and try to tries to categorize, uh, like set up data
or even like predicting the next word that is also there.
Okay, sir? Yeah. Thank you. Okay.
Okay. I'll share the, like PPT and all
and also share the like, uh,
the problems related to these things. Okay.
Are there any assignments for this week, sir? Yeah, yeah,
There will be.
Okay. How do I download?
See last three?
Yeah,
yeah.
Okay, fine. Then I'll close the session. Yeah.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Yeah, thank you, sir. Have
A good weekend. Long
Weekend, I guess, sir.
Yeah, and happy Republic Day.
Thank you, sir. Wish you the same, sir. Happy days.
Thank you. Thank.